

address         $14-$15        LINNUM
Integer Line Number Value

The target line number for GOTO, LIST, ON, and GOSUB is stored here in
low- byte, high-byte integer format, as is the number of a BASIC line
that is to be added or replaced.

LIST saves the highest line number to list (or 65535 ($FFFF) if
program is to be listed to the end) at this location.

GOTO tests the target line number to see if it is greater than the
line number currently being executed.  If it is greater, GOTO starts
its search for the target line at the current line number.  If it is
not greater, GOTO must search for the target line from the first line
of the program.  It is interesting to note that the test is of the
most significant byte only.  Therefore, INT(TARGETLINE/256) must be
greater than INT(CURRENTLINE/256) in order for the search to start
with the current line, instead of at the beginning of the program.

PEEK, POKE, WAIT, and SYS use this location as a pointer to the
address which is the subject of the command.

22            $16            TEMPPT
Pointer to the Next Available Space in the Temporary String Stack

This location points to the next available slot in the temporary
string descriptor stack located at 25-33 ($19-$21).  Since that stack
has room for three descriptors of three bytes each, this location will
point to 25 ($19) if the stack is empty, to 28 ($1C) if there is one
entry, to 31 ($1F) if there are two entries, and to 34 ($22) if the
stack is full.

If BASIC needs to add an entry to the temporary string descriptor
stack, and this location holds a 34, indicating that the stack is
full, the FORMULA TOO COMPLEX error message is issued.  Otherwise, the
entry is added, and three is added to this pointer.