


address 53248-53264 ($D000-$D010)
Sprite Horizontal and Vertical Position Registers

These locations determine the horizontal and vertical position at
which each sprite will be displayed on the screen.  Each sprite has
its own horizontal and vertical position register.  In addition, all
of the sprites share a common register which is used to extend the
range of horizontal positions.

Vertical positions for each sprite range from 0 to 255, and these
indicate the vertical position of the top line of the sprite's 21-line
length.  Since there are only 200 visible scan lines in the screen
display, some of these vertical positions will result in the sprite
being partially or wholly offscreen.

The visible viewing area starts at line 50 and extends to line 249.
Therefore, any sprite whose vertical psition is 29 ($1D) or less will
be completely above the visible picture.  At vertical position 30
($1E), the bottom line of the sprite display becomes visible at the
top of the screen.  At position 230 ($E6), the bottom line of the
sprite is lost from view off the bottom of the screen, and at vertical
position 250 ($FA), the entire sprite disappears from view off the
bottom edge of the screen.

Horizontal positioning is somewhat trickier, because the visible
display area is 320 dots wide, and one eight-bit register can hold
only 256 position values.  Therefore, an additional register is needed
to hold the ninth bit of each sprite's horizontal position.

Each sprite is assigned a single bit in the Most Significant Bit of
Horizontal Position register (MSB register) at 53264 ($D010).  If that
bit is set to 1, the value 256 is added to the horizontal position.
This extends the range of possible horizontal positions to 511.

In order to set a sprite's horizontal position, you must make sure
that both the values in the horizontal position register and the MSB
Register are correct.  For example, if you wish to set the horizontal
position of Sprite 5 to a value of 30, you must place a value of 30 in
the Sprite 5 Horizontal Position Register (POKE 53258,30 will do it
from BASIC), and you must also clear Bit 5 of the MSB Register (POKE
53264,PEEK(53264)AND(255-16)).  If you forget the MSB register, and
Bit 5 is set to 1, you will end up with position 286 instead of 30.

The horizontal position value indicates the position of the leftmost
dot of the sprite's 24-dot width.  The visible display is restricted
to the 320 dot positions between positions 24 and 344.  At position 0
the whole sprite is past the left edge of the visible screen.  At
position 1 the righmost dot enters the display area, and at position
24 ($18) the entire sprite is displayed on screen.  At position 321
($141) the rightmost dot goes past the right edge of the visible
display area, and a position 355 ($158) the whole sprite has moved out
of sight, off the right edge of the screen.

These registers are all intialized to 0 at power-up.