


address              $D41B          RANDOM
Read Oscillator 3/Random Number Generator

This register lets you read the upper eight bits of the waveform
output of Oscillator 3.  The kinds of numbers generated by this output
depend on the type of waveform selected.

If the sawtooth waveform is chosen, the output read by this register
will be a series of numbers which start at 0 and increase by 1 to a
maximum of 255, at which time they start over at 0.

When the triangle waveform is chosen, they increase from 0 to 255, at
which time they decrease to 0 again.  The rate at which these numbers
change is determined by the frequency of Oscillator 3.

If the pulse waveform is selected, the output here will be either 255
or 0.

Finally, selecting the noise waveform will produce a random series of
numbers between 0 and 255.  This allows you to use the register as a
random number generator for games.

There are many other uses for reading Oscillator 3, however,
particularly for modulation of the other voices through machine
language software.  For example, the output of this register could be
added to the frequency of another voice.  If the triangle waveform
were selected for this purpose, it would cause the frequency of the
other voice to rise and fall, at the frequency of Oscillator 3
(perhaps for vibrato effects).  This output can also be combined with
the Filter Frequency or Pulse Width Registers to vary the values in
these registers quickly over a short period of time.

Normally, when using Oscillator 3 for modulation, the audio output of
voice 3 should be turned off by setting Bit 7 of the Volume and Filter
Select Register at 54296 ($d418) to 1.  It is not necessary to gate
Bit 0 of Control Register 3 to use the oscillator, however, as its
output is not affected by the ADSR envelope cycle.