As with the section on the BASIC ROM, this section is not meant to be
a complete explanation of the Kernal ROM, but rather a guidepost for
further exploration.  Where the exact instructions the Kernal ROM
routines use are important to your programming, it will be necessary
for you to obtain a disassembly listing of those routines and look at
the code itself.

Keep in mind that there is 8K of RAM underlying the Kernal ROM that
can be used by turning off interrupts and switching out the Kernal ROM
temporarily.  Even without switching out the Kernal ROM, this RAM may
be read by the VIC-II chip if it is banked to use the top 16K of
memory, and may be used for graphics data.  The Kernal and BASIC ROMs
may be copied to RAM, and the RAM versions modified to change existing
features or add new ones.

There are some differences between the version of the Kernal found on
the first few Commodore 64s and those found on the majority of newer
models.  Those differences are discussed in the entries for the
sections on later Kernal additions (patches) at 58541-58623
($E4AD-$E4FF) an 65371-67407 ($FF5B-$FF7F).

The most obvious change causes the Color RAM at 55296 ($D800) to be
initialized to the background color when the screen is cleared on
newer models, instead of white as on the original models.  Other
changes allow the new Kernal software to be used by either U.S. or
European 64s.  Keep in mind that the Kernal is always subject to
change, and that the following discussion, while accurate at the time
written (mid-1983), may not pertain to later models.  If future
changes are like past ones, however, they are likely to be minor ones.
The first place to look for these changes would be in the patch
sections identified above.