


address     83         $F157          CHRIN
Input a Character from the Current Device

This is a documented Kernal routine whose jump table entry point is at
65487 ($FFCF).

The routine jumps through a RAM vector at 804 ($324).  Its function is
to get a character from the current input device (whose device number
is stored at 153 ($99)).  This device must first have been OPENed and
then designated as the input channel by the CHKIN routine.

When this routine is called, the next byte of data available from this
device is returned in the Accumulator.  The only exception is the
routine for the keyboard device (which is the default input device).
It the keyboard is the current input device, this routine blinks the
cursor, fetches characters from the keyboard buffer, and echoes them
to the screen until a carriage return is encountered.  When a carriage
return is round, the routine sets a flag to indicate the length of the
last logical line before the return character, and reads the first
character of this logical line from the screen.

Subsequent calls to this routine will cause the next character in the
line to be read from the screen and returned in the Accumulator, until
the carriage return character is returned to indicate the end of the
line.  Any call after this character is received will start the whole
process over again.

Note that only the last logical line before the carriage return is
used.  Any time you type in more than 80 characters, a new logical
line is started.  This routine will ignore any characters on the old
logical line, and process only the most recent 80-character group.