


address       $A0-$A2        TIME
Software Jiffy Clock

These three locations are updated 60 times a second, and serve as a
software clock which counts the number of jiffies (sixtieths of a
second) that have elapsed since the computer was turned on.

The value of location 162 ($A2) is increased every jiffy (0.1667
second), 161 ($A1) is updated every 256 jiffies (4.2267 seconds), and
160 ($A0) changes every 65536 jiffies (or every 18.2044 minutes).
After 24 hours, these locations are set back to 0.

The jiffy clock is used by the BASIC reserved variables TI and TI$.
These are not ordinary variables that are stored in the RAM variable
area, but are functions that call the Kernal routines RDTIM (63197,
$F6DD), and SETTIM (63204, $F6E4).  Assigning the value of TI or TI$
to another variable reads these locations, while assigning a given
value to TI$ alters these locations.

To illustrate the relationship between these locations and TI$, try
the following program.  The program sets the jiffy clock to 23 hours,
50 minutes.  After the program has been running for one minute, all
these locations will be reset to 0.

100 TI$="235900"
110 PRINT TI$,PEEK(160),PEEK(161),PEEK(162)
120 GOTO 110

Since updating is done by the IRQ interrupt that reads the keyboard,
anything which affects the operation of that interrupt routine will
also interfere with this clock.  A typical example is tape I/O
operations, which steal the IRQ vector for their own use, and restore
it afterwards.  Obviously, user routines which redirect the IRQ and do
not send it back to the normal routine will upset software clock
operation as well.