ou can do it on the screen, how about borders ?

Because you cannot get characters to the border, you might think that it
is impossible to make a tech-tech effect in the borders. It takes so
much time to change sprite x-coordinates, that you can change only some
of them. There is time for five sprite moves, if you do not need to
change the most significant (9th) bit of the x-coordinate. On the other
hand, you could design the movements directly to the sprites and then
just change the images, but then the movements would be constant.

However, there is one trick you can use to get all of the sprites on the
screen, with variable movements and color bars etc. You do not change
the x-coordinates, but the data itself on each scan line. In fact you
change the sprite image pointers. There is multiple sprite pictures,
where the graphics is shifted horizontally, just like the normal
tech-tech charsets. Because of this, the sprites have to be placed side
by side. No gaps are allowed. By changing the image pointers you can get
the graphics to move horizontally on each line as you wish. With
multicolor sprites you have to remember that one pixel corresponds to
two bits - the movement is not so smooth.

Wait ! How come there is enough time to change the sprite pointers, when
there is not time to change the coordinates ? This is another pointer
trick. VIC reads the sprite image pointers from the end of the current
video matrix, normally $07f8. You just have to change the video matrix
pointer ($D018) to change all of the image pointers. This takes only
eight cycles and there is plenty of time left for other effects on each
scan line. If you use only one video bank, you can get the sprite
picture to 16 different places. This allows also another kind of
effects, just use your imagination.