

Normally, when VIC-II is displaying the last character row, it is
showing the memory from offsets $3c0 to $3e7.  If VIC-II has skipped
one character row, it is displaying from $3e8 to $40f instead.  But,
there are only 10 bits for the video matrix counter (0..1023), so it
wraps around to zero after $3ff.  This means that the beginning of
the video matrix is displayed at the bottom of the screen.  The
character rows become shifted by 24 character positions to the right
because there were originally 24 unused memory locations at the end
of the memory (1000..1023).  (To be honest, sprite image pointers
are not unused memory, but they are not used with normal FLI.)

The same thing happens for color memory because it uses the same
counter for addressing the memory (in fact, color memory access and
character data access are performed simultaneosly, 12 bits at a
time).  The graphics memory behaves the same way, except that the
counter has three bits more and it counts at eight times the speed,
so that it wraps at the exact same time as the other counter.

The first character row can't be used for linecrunch and the second
one is also lost in the process.  The first usable line to display
is the third character row.  However, those two lost rows can still
be used as an extension at the end of the first screen.  You must
notice, however, that the alignment has been changed.  After these
two rows have been displayed, the video bank is switched to get new
fresh data on the screen.