

A microprocessor must have a place to get data and store
data. The computer's memory serves this purpose. Memory is
divided into individual cells containing 8 bits each, the
same size as the accumulator and X and Y registers. In order
to access the memory, it must be possible to select a
specific memory location. This selection is called
addressing memory. We give each memory location a number or
address. With 8 bits, the microprocessor can address cells
from 0 to 255 for a total of 256 memory cells. This is far
too few for most applications. For this reason, the micro
processor uses 16-bits for the address. With 16 bits, the
microprocessor can address 216 = 65536 memory locations.
This is called a 16-bit address bus. To summarize - a) the
6510 microprocessor can address 65536 memory locations; b)
each memory location can contain a value from 0 to 255. For
ease of handling, 210 = 1024 bytes is called a kilobyte or
IK. Therefore, the processor can address 64*1024 = 65536 or
64K. This is the entire address range of the Commodore 64.
Now you can understand the significance of the program
counter. The program counter contains a 16-bit value. This
16-bit value is the address of the next instruction that the
microprocessor is to fetch from memory and execute.
An instruction for the microprocessor can be represented by
a value between 0 and 255. The 6510 microprocessor can have
a maximum of 256 different instructions. However, not all
the codes have a meaning on the 6510; fewer than 256
instructions exist. BASIC commands are naturally not
included.